Accountant
Either employed within a business or working as a freelance
consultant with a portfolio of self-employed clients
or businesses. Diligence and an attention to detail
means that most accountants can make good researchers,
being able to support investigations
through the careful analysis of personal and
business transactions, financial statements,
and other records.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 30–70
Suggested Contacts: Business associates, legal
professions, financial sector (bankers, other
accountants).
Skills: Accounting, Law, Library Use,
Listen, Persuade, Spot Hidden, any two
other skills as personal or era specialties
(e.g. Computer Use).

Acrobat
Acrobats may be either
amateur athletes
competing in staged
meets—possibly even
the Olympics—or professionals
employed with the
entertainment sector (e.g.
circuses, carnivals, theatrical performances).
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + DEX × 2
Credit Rating: 9–20
Suggested Contacts: Amateur athletic circles, sports
writers, circuses, carnivals.
Skills: Climb, Dodge, Jump, Throw, Spot Hidden, Swim,
any two other skills as personal or era specialties.

Stage Actor
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + APP × 2
Credit Rating: 9–40
Suggested Contacts: Theatre industry, newspaper arts
critics, actor’s guild or union.
Skills: Art/Craft (Acting), Disguise, Fighting, History,
two interpersonal skills (Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate,
or Persuade), Psychology, any one other skill as
a personal or era specialty.

Film Star
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + APP × 2
Credit Rating: 20–90
Suggested Contacts: Film industry, media critics, writers.
Skills: Art/Craft (Acting), Disguise, Drive Auto, two
interpersonal skills (Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate,
or Persuade), Psychology, any two other skills as
personal or era specialties (e.g. Ride or Fighting).

Agency Detective
Numerous well-known detective agencies exist around the
world, with probably the most famous being the Pinkerton
and Burns agencies (merged into one in modern times).
Large agencies employ two types of agents: security guards
and operatives.
Guards are uniformed patrolmen, hired by companies
and individuals to protect property and people against burglars,
assassins and kidnappers. Use the Uniformed Police
Officer’s description for these characters. Company Operatives
are plainclothes detectives, sent out on cases requiring
them to solve mysteries, prevent murders, locate missing
people, and so on.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (STR × 2 or DEX × 2)
Credit Rating: 20–45
Suggested Contacts: Local law enforcement, clients.
Skills: One interpersonal skill (Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate
or Persuade), Fighting (Brawl), Firearms, Law,
Library Use, Psychology, Stealth, Track.

Alienist [Classic]
In the 1920s, "alienist" is the term given for those who treat
mental illness (early psychiatrists). Psychoanalysis is barely
known in the U.S., and its basis in sexual life and toilet
training is felt to be indecent. Psychiatry, a standard medical
education augmented by behaviorism, is more common.
Intellectual wars rage between alienists, psychiatrists, and
neurologists.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 10–60
Suggested Contacts: Others in the field of mental illness,
medical doctors, and occasionally detectives in law
enforcement.
Skills: Law, Listen, Medicine, Other Language, Psychoanalysis,
Psychology, Science (Biology), (Chemistry).

Animal Trainer
May be employed by film studios, a travelling circus, a horse
stable, or possibly working freelance. Whether training guide
dogs for the blind or teaching a lion to jump through a flaming
hoop, the animal trainer usually works alone, spending
long hours in proximity with the animals in their care.
An animal trainer can use the Psychology skill with animals
as well as people.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (APP × 2 or POW × 2)
Credit Rating: 10–40
Suggested Contacts: Zoos, circus folk, patrons, actors.
Skills: Jump, Listen, Natural World, Psychology, Science
(Zoology), Stealth, Track, any one other skill as a
personal or era specialty.

Antiquarian [Lovecraftian]
A person who delights in the timeless excellence of design
and execution, and in the power of ancient lore. Probably the
most Lovecraft-like occupation available to an investigator.
An independent income allows the antiquarian to explore
things old and obscure, perhaps sharpening their focus down
particular lines of enquiry based on personal preference and
interest. Usually a person with an appreciative eye and a
swift mind, who frequently finds mordant or contemptuous
humor in the foolishness of the ignorant, the pompous, and
the greedy.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 30–70
Suggested Contacts: Booksellers, antique collectors,
historical societies.
Skills: Appraise, Art/Craft (any), History, Library Use,
Other Language, one interpersonal skill (Charm,
Fast Talk, Intimidate, or Persuade), Spot Hidden, any
one other skill as a personal or era specialty.

Antique Dealer
Antique dealers usually own their own shop, retail items out
of their homes, or go on extended buying trips, making a
profit on reselling to urban stores.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 30–50
Suggested Contacts: Local historians, other antique dealers,
possibly criminal fences.
Skills: Accounting, Appraise, Drive Auto, two interpersonal
skills (Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, or Persuade),
History, Library Use, Navigate.

Archaeologist [Lovecraftian]
The study and exploration of the past. Primarily the identification,
examination, and analysis of recovered materials
relating to human history. The work involves painstaking
research and meticulous study, not to mention a willing
attitude to getting one’s hands dirty.
In the 1920s, successful archaeologists became celebrities,
seen as explorers and adventurers. While some used
scientific methods, many were happy to apply brute force
when unveiling the secrets of the past— the use of dynamite
was sometimes common. Such bullish behavior would be
frowned upon in modern times.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 10–40
Suggested Contacts: Patrons, museums, universities.
Skills: Appraise, Archaeology, History, Other Language
(any), Library Use, Spot Hidden, Mechanical Repair,
Navigate or Science (e.g. chemistry, physics,
geology, etc.)

Architect
Architects are trained to design
and plan buildings, whether
a small conversion to a private
house or a multi-million
dollar construction
project. The architect
will work closely with
the project manager
and oversee the construction.
Architects
must be aware of local
planning laws, health
and safety regulation,
and general public safety.
Some may work for
large firms or work freelance.
A lot will depend on
reputation. In the 1920s,
many try and go it alone, working out of their house or a
small office. Few manage to sell the grandiose designs they
all nurse.
Architecture may also encompass specialist areas like
naval architecture and landscape architecture.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 30–70
Suggested Contacts: Local building and city engineering
departments, construction firms.
Skills: Accounting, Art/Craft (Technical Drawing), Law,
Own Language, Computer Use or Library Use,
Persuade, Psychology, Science (Mathematics).

Artist
May be a painter, sculptor, etc. Sometimes self-absorbed
and driven with a particular vision, sometimes blessed
with a great talent that is able to inspire passion and understanding.
Talented or not, the artist’s ego must be hardy and
strong to surmount initial obstacles and critical appraisal,
and to keep them working if success arrives. Some artists
care not for material enrichment, while others have a keen
entrepreneurial streak.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (DEX × 2 or POW × 2)
Credit Rating: 9–50
Suggested Contacts: Art galleries, critics, wealthy patrons,
the advertising industry.
Skills: Art/Craft (any), History or Natural World, one
interpersonal skill (Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate,
or Persuade), Other Language, Psychology, Spot
Hidden, any two other skills as personal or era
specialties.

Asylum Attendant
Although there are private sanitariums for those few who
can afford them, the vast bulk of the mentally ill are housed
in state and county facilities. Aside from a few doctors and
nurses, they employ a large number of attendants, often
chosen more for their strength and size rather than medical
learning.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (STR × 2 or DEX × 2)
Credit Rating: 8–20
Suggested Contacts: Medical staff, patients, and relatives
of patients. Access to medical records, as well as
drugs and other medical supplies.
Skills: Dodge, Fighting (Brawl), First Aid, two interpersonal
skills (Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, or
Persuade), Listen, Psychology, Stealth.

Athlete
Probably plays in a professional baseball, football, cricket,
or basketball team. This may be a major league team with a
regular salary and national attention or—particularly in the
case of 1920s baseball—one of many minor league teams,
some of them owned and operated by major league owners.
The latter pay barely enough to keep players fed and on the
team.
Successful professional athletes will enjoy a certain
amount of celebrity within the arena of their expertise—
more so in the present day where sporting heroes stand side
by side with film stars on red carpets around the world.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (DEX × 2 or STR × 2)
Credit Rating: 9–70
Suggested Contacts: Sports personalities, sports writers,
other media stars.
Skills: Climb, Jump, Fighting (Brawl), Ride, one interpersonal
skill (Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, or
Persuade), Swim, Throw, any one other skill as a
personal or era specialty.

Author [Lovecraftian]
As distinct from the journalist, the author uses words to
define and explore the human condition, especially the
range of human emotions. Their labors are solitary and
the rewards solipsistic: only a relative handful make much
money in the present day, though in previous eras the trade
once provided a regular living wage.
The work habits of authors vary widely. Typically an
author might spend months or years researching in preparation
for a book, then withdrawing for periods of intense
creation.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 9–30
Suggested Contacts: publishers, critics, historians, etc.
Skills: Art (Literature), History, Library Use, Natural
World or Occult, Other Language, Own Language,
Psychology, any one other skill as a personal or era
specialty.

Bartender
Normally not the owner of the bar, the bartender is everyone’s
friend. For some it’s a career or their business, for
many it's a means to an end.
In the 1920s the profession is made illegal by the Prohibition
Act; however, there’s no shortage of work for a bartender,
as someone has to serve the drinks in the speakeasies
and secret gin joints.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + APP × 2
Credit Rating: 8–25
Suggested Contacts: Regular customers, possibly organized
crime.
Skills: Accounting, two interpersonal skills (Charm, Fast
Talk, Intimidate, or Persuade), Fighting (Brawl),
Listen, Psychology, Spot Hidden, any one other skill
as a personal or era specialty.

Big Game Hunter
Big game hunters are skilled trackers and hunters who
usually earn their living leading safaris for wealthy clients.
Most are specialized in one part of the world, such as the
Canadian woods, African plains, and other locales. Some
hunters may work for the black market, capturing live
exotic species for private collectors, or trading in illegal or
morally objectionable animal products like skins, ivory, and
the like—although in the 1920s such activities were more
common and were permissible under most countries’ laws.
Although the "great white hunter" is the quintessential
type, others may be simply local indigenous people who escort
hunters through the backwoods of the Yukon in search
of moose or bear.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (DEX × 2 or STR × 2)
Credit Rating: 20–50
Suggested Contacts: Foreign government officials, game
wardens, past (usually wealthy) clients, black-market
gangs and traders, zoo owners.
Skills: Firearms, Listen or Spot Hidden, Natural World,
Navigate, Other Language or Survival (any), Science
(Biology or Botany), Stealth, Track.

Book Dealer
A book dealer may be the owner of a retail outlet or niche
mail order service, or specialize in buying trips across the
country and even overseas. Many will have wealthy or regular
clients, who provide lists of sought-after and rare works.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 20–40.
Suggested Contacts: Bibliographers, book dealers, libraries
and universities, clients.
Skills: Accounting, Appraise, Drive Auto, History,
Library Use, Own Language, Other Language, one
interpersonal skill (Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, or
Persuade).

Bounty Hunter
Bounty hunters track down and return fugitives to justice.
Most often, freelancers are employed by Bail Bondsmen to
track down bail jumpers. Bounty hunters may freely cross
state lines in pursuit of their quarry and may show little
regard for civil rights and other technicalities when capturing
their prey. Breaking and entering, threats, and physical
abuse are all part of the successful bounty hunter’s bag of
tricks. In modern times this may stem to illegal phone taps,
computer hacking, and other covert surveillance.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (DEX × 2 or STR × 2)
Credit Rating: 9–30
Suggested Contacts: Bail bondsmen, local police, criminal
informants.
Skills: Drive Auto, Electronic or Electrical Repair, Fighting
or Firearms, one interpersonal skill (Fast Talk,
Charm, Intimidate, or Persuade), Law, Psychology,
Track, Stealth.

Boxer/Wrestler
Professional boxers and wrestlers are managed by individuals
(promoters) possibly backed by outside interests,
and usually locked into contracts. Professional boxers and
wrestlers work and train full-time.
Amateur boxing competitions abound, a training
ground for those aspiring to professional status. In addition,
amateur and post-professional boxers and wrestlers
can sometimes be found making a living from illegal
bare-knuckle fights, usually arranged by organized crime
gangs or entrepreneurial locals.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + STR × 2
Credit Rating: 9–60
Suggested Contacts: Sports promoters, journalists, organized
crime, professional trainers.
Skills: Dodge, Fighting (Brawl), Intimidate, Jump,
Psychology, Spot Hidden, any two other skills as
personal or era specialties.

Butler/Valet/Maid
This occupation covers those who
are employed in a servant capacity
and includes butler, valet,
and lady’s maid.
A butler is usually employed
as a domestic servant for a large
household. Traditionally the butler
is charge of the dining room, wine
cellar and pantry, and ranks as the
highest male servant. Usually male—a
housekeeper would be the female
equivalent—the butler is responsible
for male servants within the household.
The duties of the butler will vary to
according to the requirements of his
employer.
A valet or lady’s maid provides
personal services, such
as maintaining her employer's
clothes, running baths, and
effectively acting as a personal
assistant. The work might include making travel arrangements,
managing their employer’s diary, and organizing
household finances.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 9–40 (dependent on their employer’s
status and credit rating).
Suggested Contacts: Waiting staff of other households,
local businesses and household suppliers.
Skills: Accounting or Appraise, Art/Craft (any, e.g. Cook,
Tailor, Barber), First Aid, Listen, Other Language,
Psychology, Spot Hidden, any two other skills as
personal or era specialties.

Clergy, Member of the
The hierarchy of the Church usually assigns clergy to their
respective parishes or sends them on evangelical missions,
most often to a foreign country (see Missionary). Different
churches have different priorities and hierarchies: for
example, in the Catholic Church a priest may rise through
the ranks of bishop, archbishop, and cardinal, while a Methodist
pastor may in turn rise to district superintendent and
bishop.
Many clergy (not just Catholic priests) bear witness to
confessions and, though they are not at liberty to divulge
such secrets, they are free to act upon them.
Some who work in the church are trained in professional
skills, acting as doctors, lawyers, and scholars—as appropriate,
use the occupation template which best describes the
nature of the investigator’s work.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 9–60
Suggested Contacts: Church hierarchy, local congregations,
community leaders.
Skills: Accounting, History, Library Use, Listen, Other
Language, one interpersonal skill (Charm,
Fast Talk, Intimidate, or Persuade),
Psychology, any one other skill.

Computer Programmer/Technician
Usually designing, writing, testing,
debugging, and/or maintaining the
source code of computer programs,
the computer programmer is an expert
in many different subjects, including
formal logic and application platforms.
May work freelance or within the confines
of a software development house.
The computer technician is tasked
with the development and maintenance
of computer systems and
networks, often working alongside other office staff (such
as project managers) to ensure systems maintain integrity
and provide desired functionality. Similar occupations
may include: Database Administrator, IT Systems Manager,
Multimedia Developer, Network Administrator, Software
Engineer, Webmaster, etc.
The computer hacker uses computers and computer
networks as a means of protest to promote political ends
(sometimes referred to as "hacktivists") or for criminal gain.
Illegally breaking into computers and other user accounts
is required, the outcome of which could be anything from
defacing web pages, doxing, and swatting to email bombing
designed to enact denials of service.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 10–70
Suggested Contacts: Other IT workers, corporate
workers and managers, specialized Internet web
communities.
Skills: Computer Use, Electrical Repair, Electronics, Library
Use, Science (Mathematics), Spot Hidden, any
two other skills as personal or era specialties.
Hacker
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 4
Credit Rating: 10–70
Suggested Contacts: IT workers, specialized Internet
web communities, political groups, criminal enterprises.
Skills: Computer Use, Electrical Repair, Electronics,
Library Use, Spot Hidden, one interpersonal skill
(Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, or Persuade), any two
other skills.

Cowboy/girl
Cowboys work the ranges and ranches of the West.
Some own their own ranches, however many are
simply hired where and when work is available.
Good money can also be made by those
willing to risk life and limb on the rodeo
circuit, travelling between events for fame
and glory.
During the 1920s, a few found employment
in Hollywood as stuntmen
and extras in westerns; for example, Wyatt
Earp worked as a technical advisor
to the film industry. In modern times
some ranches have opened their gates
to holidaymakers wishing to experience
life as a cowboy.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 +
(DEX × 2 or STR × 2)
Credit Rating: 9–20
Suggested Contacts: Local businesspeople, state agricultural
departments, rodeo promoters, and entertainers.
Skills: Dodge, Fighting or Firearms, First Aid or Natural
World, Jump, Ride, Survival (any), Throw, Track.

Craftsperson
May be equally termed an artisan or master craftsperson.
The craftsperson is essentially skilled in the manual production
of items or materials. Normally quite talented individuals,
some gaining a high reputation for works of art, while
others provide a needed community service.
Possible trades include: furniture, jewelry, watchmaker,
potter, blacksmith, textiles, calligraphy, sewing, carpentry,
book binding glassblowing, toy maker, stained glass, and
so on.
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + DEX × 2
Credit Rating: 10–40
Suggested Contacts: Local business people, other craftspersons
and artists.
Skills: Accounting, Art/Craft (any two), Mechanical
Repair, Natural World, Spot Hidden, any two other
skills as personal specialties.

Assassin
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (DEX × 2 or STR × 2)
Credit Rating: 30–60
Suggested Contacts: Few, mostly underworld; people
prefer not to know them too well. The best will have
earned a formidable reputation on the street.
Skills: Disguise, Electrical Repair, Fighting, Firearms,
Locksmith, Mechanical Repair, Stealth, Psychology.

Bank Robber
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (STR × 2 or DEX × 2)
Credit Rating: 5–75
Suggested Contacts: Other gang members (current and
retired), criminal freelancers, organized crime.
Skills: Drive Auto, Electrical or Mechanical Repair,
Fighting, Firearms, Intimidate, Locksmith, Operate
Heavy Machinery, any one other skill as personal or
era specialty.

Bootlegger/Thug
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + STR × 2
Credit Rating: 5–30
Suggested Contacts: Organized crime, street-level law
enforcement, local traders.
Skills: Drive Auto, Fighting, Firearms, two interpersonal
skills (Charm, Fast Talk, Intimidate, or Persuade),
Psychology, Stealth, Spot Hidden.

Burglar
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + DEX × 2
Credit Rating: 5–40
Suggested Contacts: Fences, other burglars.
Skills: Appraise, Climb, Electrical or Mechanical Repair,
Listen, Locksmith, Sleight of Hand, Stealth, Spot
Hidden.

Conman
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + APP × 2
Credit Rating: 10–65
Suggested Contacts: Other confidence artists, freelance
criminals.
Skills: Appraise, Art/Craft (Acting), Law or Other
Language, Listen, two interpersonal skills (Charm,
Fast Talk, Intimidate, or Persuade), Psychology,
Sleight of Hand.

Criminal (freelance/solo)
Occupation Skill Points: EDU × 2 + (DEX × 2 or APP × 2)
Credit Rating: 5–65
Suggested Contacts: Other petty criminals, street-level
law enforcement.
Skills: Art/Craft (Acting) or Disguise, Appraise, one interpersonal
skill (Charm, Fast Talk, or Intimidate),
Fighting or Firearms, Locksmith or Mechanical
Repair, Stealth, Psychology, Spot Hidden.